The exercise asked you to consider two projects
in three areas of concern that might lead to each of the projects failing.
Project 1 considered marketing message optimization.
Areas of concern for project one are as follows.
The project is complex from a software and automation standpoint.
It will require randomized deployment to parallel campaigns,
as well as subsequent measurement of these campaigns.
This will require collaboration across several areas of the business.
There could also be qualitative impact on the brand,
if messages are very distinct from each other.
You must test only very minor surface level message alternatives
that still remain consistent with the brand.
Finally, attribution may be a challenge if you
cannot link purchases to the marketing messages received.
Project 2 considered marketing segmentation.
Areas of concern for this project are as follows.
If the extensive customer data needed for this project exists in different silos,
it may not be able to be integrated or reconciled for this project.
Segmentation projects can take a bit longer to realize value,
since the initial data science work of creating
segments must be followed by some action based on that work,
such as targeting segments for marketing messages.
Executive leadership is excited about this,
but may lose patience if it takes too long for the project to deliver results.
Results may also be quite different from
the accepted archetypes that had been
developed by the marketing department to this point.
This could see discontent and detraction from the marketing department,
one of the sets of stakeholder's key to the success of this project.